Encapsulation captures the idea that we want to group together
similar data and logic into a single class.
That's as opposed to having that data and logic be spread out across
multiple classes or having that data and logic exist independently and loosely,
inside of the program,
with no real connection to each other within the program.
Encapsulation is a little bit of a tricky concept because
encapsulation exists intention with the idea that we want to
segregate out data that's not related to each other so that we
don't have giant classes and objects that do many many different things.
Each class should really have a single self-contained idea that it operates under.
So if we think about the date class,
for example, right now in the date class,
we have this hard-coded invariant that a day must be less than or equal to 31.
But, of course, we know that 31 is an upper bound some months only have 30 days
in them and February actually only has 28 days
and actually February gets even more complicated if it's a leap year,
then February has 29 days on it.
What we might want here,
is instead of setting the invariant to be less than or equal to 31,
maybe we would have something like a days and
month function that returns the number of days in a given month
and limits our ability to set
a day to whatever the appropriate upper bound of days in a month is.
So this is a function that might, in fact,
make a lot of sense to exist inside of the day class because
the invariant for the day class or one of the invariants depends on this function,
so the class maybe can't exist without this logic in it.
On the other hand, you might imagine creating a function that's something like tomorrow,
oh, I think I misspelled tomorrow,
there we go and actually let's put it
up since we're not going to go through the process of defining it.
Let's just declare it right now.
Maybe what we could have a function
tomorrow that returns the appropriate date for tomorrow.
Well, in fact, this function may
not actually be a great candidate to exist within the date class
because tomorrow doesn't need particular access to the way that the date is stored.
So it doesn't need to necessarily be a member of the date class and
the date class doesn't really depend on tomorrow for any its invariants or other logic.
So we might actually imagine having just a totally separate function,
totally independent of the date class that calculates tomorrow for a given date.
Then we could go to find that function and return what tomorrow is.
That's kind of an example of the trickiness and
judgment in design that has to go into encapsulating elements of a function together.
You want to have all of the data and logic that is
really necessary to live together' to all be encapsulated together in a class.
But other data and logic that might be related but
isn't specifically necessary to group together,
you might want to segregate out so that your class is
tighter and cleaner than if you just start to throw everything in there.